[Autonomy]
Being the cause of your actions and feeling that you can do things your own way, rather than feeling as though external conditions and other people determine your actions.
Sub-needs involve: Freedom of decision; Individuality; Creative expression; Self-reliance

[Beauty]
Feeling that the world is a place of elegance, coherence and harmony, rather than feeling that the world is disharmonious, unappealing or ugly.
Sub-needs involve: Unity and order; Elegance and finesse; Artistic experiences; Natural beauty

[Comfort]
Having an easy, simple, relaxing life, rather than experiencing strain, difficulty or overstimulation.
Sub-needs involve: Peace of mind; Convenience; Simplicity; Overview and structure

[Community]
Being part of and accepted by a social group or entity that is important to you, rather than feeling you do not belong anywhere and have no social structure to rely on.
Sub-needs involve: Social harmony; Affiliation and group identity; Rooting (tradition, culture); Conformity (fitting in)

[Competence]
Having control over your environment and being able to exercise your skills to master challenges, rather than feeling that you are incompetent or ineffective.
Knowledge and understanding
Sub-needs involve: Challenge; Environmental control; Skill progression

[Fitness]
Having and using a body that is strong, healthy, and full of energy, rather than having a body that feels ill, weak, or listless.
Sub-needs involve: Nourishment; Health; Energy and strength; Hygiene

[Impact]
Seeing that your actions or ideas have an impact on the world and contribute to something, rather than seeing that you have no influence and do not contribute to anything.
Sub-needs involve: Influence; Contribution; To Build something; Legacy

[Morality]
Feeling that the world is a moral place and being able to act in line with your personal values, rather than feeling that the world is immoral and your actions conflict with your values.
Sub-needs involve: Have guiding principles; Acting virtuously; A just society; Fulfilling duties

[Purpose]
Having a clear sense of what makes your life meaningful and valuable, instead of lacking direction, significance or meaning in your life.
Sub-needs involve: Life goals and direction; Meaningful activity; Personal growth; Spirituality

[Recognition]
Getting appreciation for what you do and respect for who you are, instead of being disrespected, underappreciated or ignored.
Sub-needs involve: Appreciation; Respect; Status and prestige; Popularity

[Relatedness]
Having warm, mutual, trusting relationships with people who you care about, rather than feeling isolated or unable to make personal connections.
Sub-needs involve: Love and intimacy; Camaraderie; To nurture and care; Emotional support

[Security]
Feeling that your conditions and environment keep you safe from harm and threats, rather than feeling that the world is dangerous, risky or a place of uncertainty.
Sub-needs involve: Physical safety; Financial security; Social stability; Conservation

[Stimulation]
Being mentally and physically stimulated by novel, varied, and relevant impulses and stimuli, rather than feeling bored, indifferent or apathetic.
Sub-needs involve: Novelty; Variation; Play; Bodily pleasure
